## Output frame locking
This technique allows to have output frame rate equaling to original emulated retro system. It gives a smooth scrolling and overall great experience in game playing.

## Analog TV
* All retro systems are targeted for analogue TV output which is very tolerant to off-spec parameters. Many PAL TVs can happily display frame rates as low as 47Hz or even lower. And it's the same for higher frame rates.
* Analogue TV doesn't have the parameter "pixel clock" as video is produced by continuous signal without quantization. So retro computers/consoles were free to choose any pixel clock most convenient for specific implementation. As a result, picture form such system had non-square pixel. And even if pixel looked like square it might be not 100% square as eye cannot distinguish small deviation on non-quantized analog display.
* Although analogue TV has defined amount of lines per field/frame it wasn't strictly followed by home systems. Some systems might supply 311 lines or 313 lines per field for PAL instead of standard 312.5. Some systems even supplied 320 lines due to simplified output logic giving in result 48Hz of frame rate.
* Some systems went more far and output irregular line lengths where some lines might be longer than others.

## Digital TV
Digital video output (such as DVI, HDMI, DP) consist on strict parameters where pixel clock, pixels per line and lines per frame are defined and cannot be changed (actually there are more parameters are strictly defined). Because digital cicquits are based on counter it cannot freely accept any changes from standard as it requires a special handling and more expensive chips, so in most cases any out of spec parameter making modern TV refuse to display and go to "no sync" or "no signal" state.

## The Problem
As you already guess it's a hard task to make retro system with usual deviation from standard to be displayed on modern digital TV. The most hard thing to manage is frame rate matching. Modern TV cannot output frame rates if it's not standard 60FPS or 50FPS. And retro system cannot change its frame rate as well!
Scalers usually deal with such frame rate difference using different kind of techniques and requires a lot of computing power for good results. Some TVs when get video from analogue source may change their screen frame rate according to source making the task more simple. Need to note here: the same TV usually don't accept the same non-standard frame rate from digital source as internal processing goes through different routes. Digital input carry not only video but other streams like audio and servicing info - so other parts of TV are included in the processing chain unlike the analogue input carrying just video.

## HDMI Output from MiSTer
MiSTer's main output is HDMI. As you know from above, even if modern TV can accept some deviation on analog input it's not the case of MiSTer providing the digital output. So, strict HDMI requirement is applied here. 
So, the task of frame rate conversion or matching lays on MiSTer. Being in the middle between emulated retro system and TV, the MiSTer cannot ask TV for specific frame rate output. In general case MiSTer also cannot ask for specific frame rate from emulated system as well. Emulated system has many parameters related to each other making impossible to change the frame rate. In theory it's possible to change the master clock of emulated system to some amount to let the output frame rate match the standard. In practice such relation to master clock is not so direct. Some systems may even supply different resolutions. And even if correct ratio between master clock and frame rate can be determined, the ratio itself may have long polynomial value like PI (3.1415926535..) So it won't be possible to set the clock without drifting the output frame start to either direction and eventually look like screen tearing.
